# RNA PTM Classifier

A script to classify RNA PTM profile data, and test it.



## Installation


### Dependencies

- Numpy
- Matplotlib
- Scikit Learn
- Pandas


### Easy approach

Install and utilize [Anaconda Python](https://www.anaconda.com/)

## Getting Started

### Data 

Example data structure included in example_data.csv

### Running commands

The script takes in command line arguments. Load up a terminal (or anaconda terminal), point to the script and provide it with arguments

```

python \dir\to\script\PTM_classifier.py -ARGS <PARAM>

```

The script outputs figures in .png format, and in most cases, the data used to create the figures as a .csv file. 

### Data division

It is important to split data into training and testing sets
The training flag takes in the datafile path
The random_test flag asks for the percentage of data to set aside for testing (here it is 10%)
This is randomly selected, and balanced across different classes

```

python PTM_classifier.py -training example_data.csv -random_test 0.1

```

### Classifier comparison

Compares common estimators used for classification:
- LinearSVM
- KNeighbors
- GradientBoosting

Leave one out cross validation is used. 

```

python PTM_classifier.py -training example_data.csv -compare_classifiers

```

### Classifier selection


**-classifier options**
- gradient
- kneighbors

This alone will not do anything. It will just set the classifier.


```

python PTM_classifier.py -train example_data.csv -random_test 0.1 –classifier gradient

```


### Classifier cross validation results

Outputs leave one out cross validation results for classifier specified by -classifier flag

```

python PTM_classifier.py -train example_data.csv -random_test 0.1 –classifier gradient -loo

```


### Classifier most important features

Outputs feature importance decided by the classifier. This function works best for gradient boosting classifier.

```

python PTM_classifier.py -train example_data.csv -random_test 0.1 –classifier gradient -feature

```

### Model assessment using testing set

This will use the model to make predictions on the testing set.

**Outputs the following plots:**
- Prediction probability plots
- Confusion matrix
- Precision recall plot

```

python PTM_classifier.py -train example_data.csv -random_test 0.1 –classifier gradient -test

```

### Random state

Use the -random_state flag with a consistent value to make all results reproducible between runs

```

python PTM_classifier.py -train example_data.csv -random_test 0.1 –random_state 43

```

### Euclidean distance matrix

This will export a matrix of the Euclidean distances between all samples within the dataset

```

python PTM_classifier.py -train example_data.csv -random_test 0.1 –random_state 43 -euclidean

```

### Custom subdirectory exporting

This flag will set a subdirectory or folder to export all plots, data into


```

python PTM_classifier.py -train example_data.csv -random_test 0.1 -output analysis2

```

### EPS plot exporting

In many cases you may need to further edit the plots generated by the script. Use the -eps to export a vector image for editing.
Precision-recall plots contain shaded bars. EPS does not easily support transparency. As such, these plots are exported in PDF format. They can still be edited in a vector program.

```

python PTM_classifier.py -train example_data.csv -random_test 0.1 –eps

```


### Black background plot exporting

In many cases you may need to have plots with a black background. This will set assist in that aim.

```

python PTM_classifier.py -train example_data.csv -random_test 0.1 –blk

```


## Built With

* [Scikit-Learn](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn)
* [Salmonella](https://github.com/mehravehs/Salmonella) - Influenced by

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md) file for details

